**Part One: Basics** 
                          
1. SAS statement

A SAS statement is a string consisting of SAS keywords, SAS names, special characters and operators that ends with a semicolon.
The form of the comment statement is: /Comment content/ or *Comment content;

2. SAS program

Statements in a SAS program can be divided into two types of steps:

(1) DATA step: generate SAS data set;
(2) PROC step: analyze and process the data in the SAS data set and output the results;

SAS program windows include:

(1) Editor window: Use full-screen editing mode for input. After the program input is completed, you can run the program by selecting Submit in the menu or pressing the F3 key, or you can submit only part of the statements;
(2) Log window: displays the information recorded during program execution, including executed statements, the number of variables and records in the generated data set, the time spent on each step and error information, etc.;
(3) The output window displays the SAS process's output;

3. SAS data set

A SAS data set is equivalent to a table in other database systems; each row is called an observation, which is equivalent to a record in other database systems; each column is called a variable;
SAS variables have only two types: numeric type and character type; the length of the variable is 8 bytes by default. The main keywords are:

(1) LENGTH: Define variable length;
(2) INFORMAT/FORMAT: You can define the input and output formats of variables;
(3) LABEL: Add a label to the variable, that is, an identifier that replaces the variable name;

SAS data sets exist in the form of files in the system, with the extension .sas7bdat. Every time the SAS system is started, the system automatically opens a temporary storage area named WORK to store data generated by DATA steps or other processes. 
Temporary data set.

Once you exit the SAS system, this temporary storage area is deleted, and all temporary data files in it are also deleted.
In order to create a permanent data set, the storage place and name must be specified for the data set. The first part is called the library tag or logical library name.
It always uses the LIBNAME statement to associate the library tag with a directory. Indicates where the data set is stored.
For example: 
```  libname develop "d:\projects\develop\data"
```

develop.t_tmp indicates that the data set t_tmp is stored in the "d:\projects\develop\data" directory, and tmp or work.tmp indicates that the data set tmp is stored in the temporary storage area;

Methods for getting your data into SAS can be put into four general categories:
- Enter data directly into SAS data sets.
- Create SAS data sets from raw data files.
- Convert data files from other software into SAS data sets.
- Read data files from other software directly.
Naturally, the method you choose will depend on where your data are located,and what software tools are available to you. 
With Base SAS software Viewtable allows you to enter your data in a tabular format. 
You can define variables, or columns, and give them attributes such as name, length, and type (character or numeric). 
SAS Enterprise Guide software, which is included with Base SAS for Windows, has a data entry window that is very similar to the Viewtable window. 
As with Viewtable, you can define variables and give them attributes


